# Event Driven Architecture
>
## Review, Research, and Discussion

**What’s the difference between a FIFO and a standard queue?**

        FIFO queues have essentially the same features as standard queues, but provide the added benefits of supporting ordering and exactly-once processing. FIFO queues provide additional features that help prevent unintentional duplicates from being sent by message producers or from being received by message consumers

**How can the server be assured a message was properly received?**

        we can use the socket.io’s acknowledgements.

**What classic design pattern is best represented by event driven programming?**

        Event-driven from end to end

**How do you test an event driven system?**

        Ensure supporting topics exist
        Start the application under test (“application” here could mean Kafka Streams, Kafka connectors, Samza, etc.)
        Send some input events

## Vocabulary Terms

**FIFO Queue:** FIFO (First-In-First-Out) queues are designed to enhance messaging between applications when the order of operations and events is critical, or where duplicates can't be tolerated.

**Pub/Sub:** Pub/Sub allows services to communicate asynchronously, with latencies on the order of 100 milliseconds.

## Preview

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

        Event Driven Programming. 

Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?

        The complexities of Socket Io and other uses, Building a chat between 2 people, building a fully operation all that renders and updates information realtime

What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

        Rendering and updating apps in real time

## Preparation Materials

### AWS SNS and SQS

**Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS)** is a managed service that provides message delivery from publishers to subscribers (also known as producers and consumers). Publishers communicate asynchronously with subscribers by sending messages to a topic, which is a logical access point and communication channel. Clients can subscribe to the SNS topic and receive published messages using a supported endpoint type, such as Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, Amazon SQS, AWS Lambda, HTTP, email, mobile push notifications, and mobile text messages (SMS).

**SQS is distributed queuing system** Messages are not pushed to receivers. Receivers have to poll SQS to receive messages. Messages can’t be received by multiple receivers at the same time. Any one receiver can receive a message, process and delete it. Other receivers do not receive the same message later. Polling inherently introduces some latency in message delivery in SQS unlike SNS where messages are immediately pushed to subscribers. SQS is mainly used to decouple applications or integrate applications. Messages can be stored in SQS for short duration of time (max 14 days). SNS distributes several copies of message to several subscribers. For example, lets say you want to replicate data generated by an application to several storage systems.

## Resources

[AWS SNS and SQS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mXk0MNjlO7A)
