# Bearer Authorization
>
## Write the following steps in the correct order

* register your app to get a client_id and client_secret

* ask client if they want to sign in via a 3rd party

* redirect to 3rd party authentication endpoint

* make a request to a 3rd party API endpoint

* recieve authorization code

* make request to access token endpoint

* receive access token

---

## Document the following Vocabulary Terms

* ***Client ID*** is the unique identifier provided to an app upon registration.

***Client Secret*** is a unique and confidential value held between the authorization server and authorized clients. It restricts the issuing of access tokens to trusted requestors.

***Authentication Endpoint*** An API endpoint used for requesting access to resources.
Access Token Endpoint An API endpoint for requesting a token.

***API Endpoint*** is the touch point between applications that points to the necessary resources; in other words where your request goes.

***Authorization Code*** A random string generated by the authorization server and returned to the application as part of the authorization response. The authorization code is relatively short-lived and is exchanged for an Access Token at the token endpoint when using the Authorization Code Flow.

***Access Token*** A credential that is used by an application to access an API. It informs the API that the bearer has been authorized

## Intro to JWT

***JSON Web Token (JWT)*** is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

### Why should we use JSON Web Tokens?

      As JSON is less verbose than XML, when it is encoded its size is also smaller, making JWT more compact than SAML. This makes JWT a good choice to be passed in HTML and HTTP environments.

      Security-wise, SWT can only be symmetrically signed by a shared secret using the HMAC algorithm. However, JWT and SAML tokens can use a public/private key pair in the form of a X.509 certificate for signing. Signing XML with XML Digital Signature without introducing obscure security holes is very difficult when compared to the simplicity of signing JSON.

## Preview

Which 3 things had you heard about previously and now have better clarity on?

* linked list
* basic auth
* mongodb

Which 3 things are you hoping to learn more about in the upcoming lecture/demo?

* basic auth
* mongodb
* data structure

What are you most excited about trying to implement or see how it works?

* basic auth

## Resources

[JWTs Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=926mknSW9Lo)

[Intro to JWT](https://jwt.io/introduction/)

[Are JWTs Secure](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27301557/if-you-can-decode-jwt-how-are-they-secure)

[npm jsonwebtoken docs](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jsonwebtoken)
